You've found that special someone. You can't believe how compatible you are. Yet you
soon discover that compatible does not mean identical. The Bible describes a
husband and wife as complements, not competitors. A complement completes what
another may lack. This means your differences can strengthen your marriage. Still,
with two imperfect people, disagreements will happen, but they don't have to
become arguments. If the two of you don't see a matter in the same way, for
example, how to manage money, what should you do? Should you insist until you get
your way? Say nothing at all. There is a better way to work through the
occasional difference before it becomes a conflict. A Bible principle states,
let each one keep seeking, not his own advantage, but that of the other person.
You may need to set aside your cherished point of view and really try to see
the value of your mate's perspective. Remember, seek his or her advantage, not
your own. Take each issue one at a time. You may be able to resolve most of your
differences and meet in the middle. With practice, you will learn to tackle your
disagreements, not each other. This is a skill you will work out for a lifetime
since we all change as we age. For example, what if your viewpoints differ on how
to care for aging parents? Start with your common ground. In addition to the
financial cost, consider the cost to your time, health and relationship with each
other and with God. Recognize the merits of your spouse's viewpoint and even if
your differences cannot be solved by a mutual compromise, conceding and
supporting will be a win for your friendship. You might also agree to discuss the
question again at a later date or a circumstances change. Even if you don't
always agree, you can still work as a team. Different viewpoints broaden your
horizons, add colour to your marriage and in the end draw you closer to one another.
Here are three questions to discuss that can help you handle situations in your
marriage where viewpoints differ. If it's convenient, pause this video now and
really talk.